# A Reading of Robert Frost’s Home Burial

In his poem, "Home Burial," Robert Frost has us witness a scene between a husband and wife where their inability to understand each other's modes of grief for their dead child becomes the wedge that cleaves their marriage apart. This overhearing is achieved by the poem taking on the form of a dialog between the two. We learn that each of them grieves for their dead child. However, his manner of grief is held within and not evident to an onlooker. We see that as far as his wife can tell, he is not grieving at all, and therefore cannot understand her grief. By the end of the poem, we are there when she leaves the house, and know that emotionally, she is leaving the marriage.

Both characters deserve sympathy for their loss. The wife, especially so, as she has just lived nine months intimately connected to the baby. She makes it clear that a man cannot have that connection and therefore cannot have the understanding when she says "I don't know rightly whether any man can" (40). Nevertheless, I cannot help but to sympathize and relate to the husband's plight in this story. He is accused of not caring. Does he really not feel the loss of his first child, or does his mourning take a different and not so obvious form? He begs his wife with "Let me into your grief" (62). But can she when he then accuses her "[taking her] mother-loss of a first child so inconsolably" (67). In the end, I feel more for her anguish even though I can relate to his situation.
